# UOCIS322 - Project 2 #

Author: Nabil Abdel-Rahman

Contact: nabilabdel-rahman@outlook.com

This project starts a simple web server with "file checking" logic using Docker and Flask. When running the Flask application through Docker, the server loads a text which reads, "UOCIS docker demo!" The server handles requests by loading files which exists in the pages folder and transmits a 200/OK header followed by that file. If a file doesn't exist, a 404 Not Found error code is transmitted and appears on the page. If a request includes illegal characters, the response is a 403 Forbidden error which is transmitted and shown on the page. When ran, the service binds to the machine's port number and allows the browser to display any messages and/or files on it's localhost. The port number which the service uses is defined in the credentials.ini file as well as whether the service is in debug mode or not. To change this, simply change the values in the credential file and the Flask application uses configuration parsing logic to find these values. If a credentials.ini file is not found, the configuration parsing logic uses a default.ini file provided in the repo to define these values. To use, make sure your machine has Docker installed. It can be used through any Linux environment by using the "docker build -t some-image-name ." command to build an image and then using the "docker run -d -p 5001:5000 some-image-name" to run a container with the image, and then accessing the results through your machine's port (port number is 5001 in this example). Be careful with other Docker commands as you may unintentionally create unsolvable issues on your machine.